# YYYY-MM-DD and Calculating Dates
[@anthonykava](https://twitter.com/anthonykava) 2018-12-02

## YYYY-MM-DD
Over the past decade or so, I've convinced myself that standardising on YYYY-MM-DD dates is the way to go.  This goes for code comments, notes I write to myself, reports I write, and, most importantly, file and directory names.  If you're going to do anything for longer than one year, or perhaps just a thing that straddles two years (like a December to January project) it helps.

### 0. Why? Sorting
YYYY-MM-DD naturally sorts, even if you're just sorting "alphabetically" in a file listing, into a chronological order.  Alternatives popular in the States, like MM-DD-YY are manageable at first but become a pain in the neck.

### 1. Why? SQLish
YYYY-MM-DD naturally works in your favourite flavour SQL query.

### 2. Why? File paths
Slashes don't lend themselves to use in filenames and directories.  Yes, you can go crazy with escaped slashes, but you will definitely go crazy.

### 2. Why? ISO 8601
Since 1988, YYYY-MM-DD is a healthy part of an international standard on representation of dates and times, ISO 8601.

Wikipedia - ISO 8601: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601

## Calculating Dates (and Times)
On a related note, if you're writing software that stores, displays, and/or deals with dates and times I'm begging you to please store these in some format that allows you to calculate your times for display and other purposes.  This is the right way.  Your language of choice no doubt has functions, libraries, and even object-oriented means for doing this.

Maybe you're lucky, and this hasn't happened to you.  I've had to work in multiple pieces of software that actually rely on the date/time format presented by Windows governed by your Region Settings.  That's right.  The software expects dates as MM/DD/YY, and operates accordingly.  If, for example, you are personally enamored with YYYY-MM-DD and customise Windows accordingly, your software breaks.

Yes, you might be thinking, "Don't use Windows."  Would that I couldn't.  My Year of the Linux desktop was sometime around 2009, and I've had the painful joy of running Linux elsewhere since the 1990s.  Unfortunately, like lots of other geeks, my work requires the use of certain software that requires Windows.  I'm also for using what works, agnostic of any OS sect.

That said, Windows software that computes, displays, and stores dates and times based on your regional customisation is nearly criminal.  Also consider having to run two or more pieces of software that do the same thing and demand different formats (and *ahem* rely on the right time zone as well).  What a mess.

So please, if you're writing code, use portable dates.  If you're lazy use an epoch.  Yes, you should probably be using 64-bit epochs these days.  If you're certain you'll be retiring before 2038 perhaps you can continue using the Unix epoch.  If you're using any kind of high-level language there's certain to be some sort of time object available to you as well.

Wikipedia - Year 2038 problem: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year_2038_problem
